# Lowest-common ancestor

The project contains the following files:

* Final_Paper.pdf
  * The analysis performed on all algorithms, written in Romanian using LateX

* algo.h
  * Contains a description of the prototype of a function that solves the
  problem.

* main.cpp
  * The source contains the implementation of the read and output functions.
  * Its main role is to process the data received by the function that solves
  the LCA and to display the results.

* lca_disjoint-set.cpp
  * Contains a class that implements the most important functionalities of the
  data structure of disjoint set forests.
  * Contains the solution of the LCA problem with an iterative implementation
  of Tarjan's algorithm.

* lca_rmq.cpp
  * Contains the solution of the LCA problem by reducing it to the RMQ problem.
  * euler_tour makes the euler representation of the tree and calculates the
  levels on which each node is.
  * rmq_sparse_table applies the dynamic programming method to preprocess the
  information needed for answers.

* Makefile
    * build rule builds both solution implementations.
    * run_tests rule only runs the checker

* Folder 'in' with the entrance tests on [infoarena](https://infoarena.ro/problema/lca)
    * Each test is called "testID.in", where ID is the number
    test (e.g. test0.in)
    * Each test is structured as follows:
      * On the first line, N (int - number of nodes in the tree), M (int -
      number of queries)
      * N-1 pairs of integers, representing the edges of the graph
      * M pairs of numbers, representing a query
      * The root of the graph is node 1.
    * N, M <= 10 ^ 6

* Folder 'out' with the output tests generated by one of the two implementations
  * Each test will be named "testID.out", where ID is the test number (e.g.
  test0.out)
  * Each test will contain the answers to the M queries.

* Folder 'ok'
  * Contains the correct results for each test in the 'in' folder

* 'Other_tests' folder contains tests generated with an Octave script
  * test generator [source code](src/generate_test_d.m) used
  * I did not generate more than 6 tests due to the memory occupied by each of
  them

* The 'checker' folder (contains sources inspired by
  [this homework](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/sd-ca/teme/tema1-2020),
  but has been modified)
  * check_one_test.sh tests the running of a single program and compares the
  results with a reference test, it has the option of analyzing the memory used,
  but I did not call it in tests due to the long running time
  * check_tests.sh verifies the integrity of tests and the program by running
  tests within a certain range
  * checker.sh does a static code analysis and runs tests on the
  <https://infoarena.ro> to verify correctness
